In this video, I wanna reiterate and
clarify a little bit more about the use
of the message type. So, up on the screen
I have the JMS message. So, there's a
lot of Java doc to this but let me collapse
out in the Java doc.
And, we can see this lives in the package
in javax.jms. This is the Java
standard. This is the standard API.
And remember, ActiveMQ is an
implementation of that. And it can get a
little confusing as to the object types
that are in play, especially when we
start mixing in Spring. In the previous
video, you saw me, you may have noticed I
stumbled a little bit when I was setting up
the getting the message to reply queue.
And that's because I wrote an example
previously and I used the Spring message
type rather than the JMS message type and
the API had some minor differences. So, I
decided to add in this video to clarify
it because somebody new to JMS
messaging could easily make a
similar mistake and get very confused
by this. So, we talked about the different
JMS message types that we can send, the
bytes message and so on. And we've been
using a text message. These are all
implementations of this interface for
message. So, there are different
implementations of that. Then, we have the
ActiveMQMessage class. And we can see
if I come in here and look at that and
that is implementing that interface from
the javax.jms message. So, it's implementing
an interface that we're just looking at
out of the Java API. So, that's how
this is working. And then ActiveMQ of
course is going to have implementations
for the various message types. So, this is
a generic message here. And then it will
have an implementation for each one. And
then finally, what we have here is Spring
Framework has a abstraction. So, it has
its own. I was, the Package
org.springframework.messaging and then a message payload.
And you can use this and that. I think I might have made them use interchangeably a little bit through out here.
The message builder is definitely gonna be using this. And when you are
developing with Spring Framework, I tend
to favor using this implementation.
You can favor. You can also use JMS. What
this is going to allow you to do is when
you get further into the Spring
Framework and building a larger
application. This is abstracting the JMS
portion of the code. So, if you decide to
switch to a different messaging provider, it'll be a little less painful. So, it's
kind of abstracting that out.
So, this is kind of what I tend to favor.
This section was focused on JMS. I may
have switched back and forth. But overall
this is the message type. You'll see this
used again and again throughout the
Spring Framework, especially if you start
getting into tooling on a Spring
Integration, which I'm a big fan of. I
really like Spring Integration. That's
outside the scope of this course. But
Spring Integration does a really really
good job of abstracting out the entire
messaging layer. So, you can easily swap
from JMS to Kafka to Rabbit and it's
very very abstracted. So, at the end of
the day when you are working with
messages themselves, the messaging
implementation doesn't matter to you as
the developer. So, but this section was
specifically on JMS so we'll get a little
bit closer to the actual JMS
implementation. So, what I wanna show
you here also in this, I tweaked the
hello world message listener. You can
see here in this first message that is
the JMS message. And then here, I brought
in the Spring Framework message and
brought it up in the debugger. So, I got
the break point up and I wanted to
highlight those. So, let me bring this up.
You can see the JMS message that is
actually an ActiveMQ text message. Again,
that's an implementation of the text
message for the JMS specification. So, we
can see this is the one that we worked
with in the previous video. And then up
here, I have the Spring message. Again,
this is abstraction. And you can see
inside the object structure, you have the
the message but the API is slightly
be different. So, the headers of the
message are actually mapped to the JMS
message properties. So, if I was using
this, I'd have to get the JMS destination.
Actually, let me... I've got my other window open.
I'm gonna bring in this code. Give me one
second here. I'm grabbing this from my
example that it worked on in preparation
for the previous lesson. I'm just
gonna cancel that. But here, this is the... let me
comment that out so we can see the
contrast there. So, in this previous line
that just pasted it on line 51. This is
working with the Spring implementation.
And here, in the JMS template on line 53,
I'm using the JMS message and there is a
method for get JMS reply to. When I'm
using the Spring flavor of this message,
I actually have to use getHeaders and
then get the jms_replyTo property so
that is mapped into a map of headers
effectively. And that's how you access
that. So, minor difference there. And also
you need to do a cast to a Destination
for that property, that is a JMS
Destination. So, two different ways for
doing this. On line 51, I kind of think
the doing the cast is a little ugly so
that's always a bit of a code smell when
you see that. But, in this case here, you
are decoupling from the JMS
implementation. So, we are still somewhat
tied to it but in either case of your to
do a change you'd have to touch the code
here. But I did wanna go through and
point out the differences here of
what we're dealing with. Again, just as a
quick recap, so we have the JMS, the javax.jms
Message, that is the JMS API
specification for a message. We are using
the ActiveMQMessage class. So, that is
the implementation that implements the
Java API. That's what's being provided
from ActiveMQ. And then finally, we have
the Spring abstraction of a Message and
that also works within the Spring
Framework. And here in the debugger, I'm
showing you two different ways here.
Being able to use the convert and send,
using a destination and using the Spring
implementation that is on line 51. And
then on line 53, that convertAndSend
with the jmsTemplate. You can see I'm
using the native JMS message where I do
have a method where I can use the JMSReplyTo. So, two different techniques.
I just want hopefully this clarifies the
different object types that we have
within the messaging infrastructure
within the Spring Framework and within
JMS.